# Crowdfunding-ETL
## Purpose
This project is designed to teach us about using Python pandas (DataFrames and csv files), along with creating an Entity_Diagram design for a database, and then using the PostgreSQL environment to implement this database consisting of tables representing the 6 starting data files in csv format. We are given the scenario that we have a crowdfunding dataset consisting of 6 csv formatted files, with data about the crowdfunding projects. For each project, the data includes an identification number, the company name, a description of the project, the project's goal amount, the amount pledged so far, the project outcome so far, the number of backers of the project,  and includes category-and-subcategory combinations to help us differentiate between the projects.

Our initial tasks, described in the Module 8 unit, direct us to examine the given csv files to understand the fields they contain, what might be a unique field that would be a primary key once each file is loaded into a relational database, and also to recognize any other fields in a given data file that could connect this data to other tables in the database (aka foreign keys in a table). I also examined the given data in each file to see if the values were all numeric, and if so, are they integers or money (needing a decimal point), and if not numeric data, what type of alphanumeric text data they might represent. Strings or alphanumeric text data in a database is often refereed to as 'VARCHAR' data and if possible, I try to consider if the data has a maximum length. This can save some space, if I can limit the size of some databse fields to 10 characters or 50 characters, etc. I notice that there are two date fields and uploading those into DATE format fields means we can get information about how long a compaign lasts by using math operations on the launch and end dates. This is great. 
